Introduction to Web Development
So what is web development?
You already know this
But let's see the basics of it
You must have seen many websites around you
You must be visiting Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn
There are many sites that you must be visiting
So basically making these sites is called web development
Websites are also of many types
One is static and the other is dynamic site
What is static site?
Static sites are simple landing pages
In which there are only some images, some text and some basic things
And there is not much interactivity in those sites
There are many things in which there is a back-end requirement
You don't do those things there
But dynamic web applications like Instagram, Facebook
Here you post something daily, delete something
You do a lot of things
You also check people's profiles
So everything changes dynamically
So this is basically a dynamic site
Where everything is functioning well from back-end to front-end
Now let's see what is the basic requirement of making websites
Now you must have seen all of you
What is HTML, CSS and JavaScript?
So basically what are these?
These are the technologies by which you make websites
Now these are very traditional things
This is a traditional way of making websites
A beginner develops websites by using HTML, CSS and JavaScript
Now HTML defines the skeleton of your site
That means here in your site
For example I have shown you an example
Here you can see the text
There is a navigation bar
There is a table below
All these things are already defined in the code
So this basic skeleton defines the HTML of any website
Now let's see what is CSS
CSS works for styling and adding beauty to the website
Now you can see how beautiful a site looks
The human, the astronaut and the earth
All of this is made using CSS
Right?
After this you will see JavaScript
So what is JavaScript?
JavaScript basically works to put logic in any site
That means it is the brain of any site
So what was HTML?
It was a skeleton
The CSS is beauty
And the JavaScript is the brain
So basically any function that has to be executed in the site
How should you look when you click any button
Or for example when you submit a form
So what should happen there
All these things are defined in JavaScript
Now here
Now let's see one more thing
How does a website work?
Now how does a website work?
Here it has a very simple demonstration
Here we have a client
Client means you
For example you have opened a Chrome browser in your computer
Or any browser
Now you search the name of any website from there
For example Google.com
You searched Google.com
Now what happens is that it goes to Google's server
Now there are things like DNS here
But we are looking at basic things
So the request goes to Google's server
Now the server sends the response of that request
And what does it send in response?
It sends these files
First it does a lot of checks on the server
But we don't want to see that
Now the server basically sends you the files of HTML, CSS and JavaScript
Which displays your browser
Then you see a website
Okay
So this is happening like this
This is what happens
Now apart from this
We have got this position
That the basic technologies
That is HTML, CSS and JavaScript
I said this traditional because
Because now no one uses it
That is, no one uses HTML, CSS and JavaScript in a plain way
They are used there
But now there are many frameworks
Using which websites are made
For example
There is a library of JavaScript
Which we call React
Now what does React do?
React basically does what?
That the website making experience that you have
Which is made using JavaScript, HTML and all these
It makes it easy and convenient
And apart from this it is very fast
And it helps a lot in making single page applications
That is
When you make a normal website
So you will see that when you switch to the page
Then it will be reloaded
But
React applications are not reloaded
They are directly
Switched from one page to another page
Without reloading
This is not just the specialty of React
Apart from this there are many more things
Now
All the modern day websites of today
You can say
Instagram is done
And Facebook is done
Such sites are made in React
React is being used in them
And React was developed by Facebook
And
Here you can see
All the sites that I have put here
For example
You can make all types of sites with React
Now apart from this
We will see how React works
React works on a virtual DOM method
That is
What happens is
When you update something in the site
Normally
Now we remove React
So what happens is
It is updated directly
All the elements of the website
They are directly updated
But
The React
It creates a virtual DOM
Between these two
That is
What is virtual DOM?
Let's see what DOM is first
Let me tell you the most basic way
All the elements in your site
From the HTML tag to the bottom
All of them
To the closing tag
All of them come in the DOM of a website
That is
One element
Then one element in it
Then another element in it
By doing this
The website
It creates a tree-like structure
In which elements come in elements
So that is your
That is basically a DOM
Okay
Now that DOM
What JavaScript does there
What JavaScript does
It copies the actual DOM
And creates a virtual DOM
Now whatever you change
It changes in this virtual DOM
As soon as that thing changes in the virtual DOM
It
It is pushed again
In the actual DOM of the browser
Let me explain this in a more basic way
So let's assume
You have an element
It is a div element
In which you have put some text
You have put a heading tag in it
Now when you update normally
It gets directly updated
But
When you
Use libraries like react
So what happens
That react first
The actual DOM of the browser
In which
The actual elements
It makes a copy of them
Then
Whatever you change
It puts it in that copy
And
Then finally
That copy
It changes in the actual DOM
What happens here
Time is saved
That is
You don't have to call the actual DOM
Again and again
You don't have to see the actual DOM again and again
Things happen in the virtual DOM
Then it passes in the actual DOM
Which happens in a very easy way
If you haven't understood this thing yet
Then it doesn't matter
We will understand it in the future
After this
Let's see
Why do we use the react framework
And why do we learn this
See
All the frameworks
In today's time
Of that
The most
That is
That react
Is being used
Now the thing
Which is used the most
The thing
By the developers
It will be used in the industry
Because
These things are going on in the industry
That's why so many people
Are using it
So this is a very trending skill
And
Not just now
For a long time
React
Is at the top
So you have to learn this
Absolutely
So this was our
Basic
Web Development
Introduction